.TH CPS 1 "April 2026" "cps 0.4.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
cps \- Claude Profile Switch
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cps
.I command
.RI [ args ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Switch between isolated Claude Code profiles.
Each profile contains its own credentials, settings, skills, commands, agents, and MCP config.
Profiles are git-backed with optional age encryption and cross-device sync.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS "Profile Management"
.TP
.B init
Initialize CPS, snapshot current config as 'default' profile.
.TP
.B init \-\-key \fIpath\fR
Import an age key on a new machine.
.TP
.B create \fIname\fR [\-\-from \fIprofile\fR | \-\-fresh | \-\-template \fIurl\fR]
Create a new profile. Defaults to copying the active profile.
.TP
.B use \fIname\fR
Switch to the named profile. Updates CLAUDE_CONFIG_DIR, swaps ~/.claude.json, symlinks ~/.claude/, and restores Claude Desktop config.
.TP
.B list
List all profiles. Active profile marked with *.
.TP
.B current
Print the active profile name.
.TP
.B delete \fIname\fR
Delete a profile. Cannot delete the active profile.
.TP
.B rename \fIold\fR \fInew\fR
Rename a profile.
.TP
.B export \fIname\fR [\fIpath\fR]
Export a profile as a .tar.gz archive.
.TP
.B import \fIarchive\fR [\fIname\fR]
Import a profile from an archive.
.TP
.B clone \fIurl\fR
Clone profiles from a remote git repository.
.TP
.B status
Show differences between the active profile and live config.
.TP
.B snapshot [\-\-desktop]
Save live config back to the active profile.
.SS "Git Backup & Sync"
.TP
.B save \fR[\fImessage\fR]
Commit current profile state.
.TP
.B log \fR[\fIprofile\fR]
Show change history.
.TP
.B rollback \fIcommit\fR
Restore to a previous commit.
.TP
.B remote \fR[\fIurl\fR]
Get or set git remote.
.TP
.B push
Push to remote.
.TP
.B pull
Pull from remote.
.TP
.B sync enable \fIurl\fR
Enable auto-sync to remote.
.TP
.B sync disable
Disable auto-sync.
.TP
.B sync status
Show sync state.
.SS "Claude Desktop"
.TP
.B desktop save
Save Claude Desktop config to profile.
.TP
.B desktop restore
Restore Claude Desktop config from profile.
.TP
.B desktop status
Check if desktop config is synced.
.SS "Utility"
.TP
.B diff \fR[\fIp1\fR] [\fIp2\fR]
Compare two profiles.
.TP
.B edit \fR[\fIname\fR]
Open profile directory in $EDITOR.
.TP
.B doctor
Run health checks.
.TP
.B upgrade
Self-update to latest version.
.TP
.B shell\-init
Output shell integration code for eval.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B CLAUDE_CONFIG_DIR
Set by cps to point Claude Code at the active profile's config directory.
.TP
.B CPS_DATA_DIR
Override profile storage location (default: ~/.local/share/cps).
.TP
.B CPS_DEVICE_NAME
Override device hostname in commit messages.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/cps/
Profile storage (git repository).
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/cps/profiles/*/claude/
Per-profile Claude Code config directories.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/cps/active
Current active profile name.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/cps/cps.conf
CPS configuration (sync settings).
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/cps/age-key.txt
Age encryption private key (gitignored).
.SH SHELL INTEGRATION
Add to ~/.zshrc or ~/.bashrc:
.PP
.RS
eval "$(cps shell\-init)"
.RE
.PP
For Oh My Zsh, add 'cps' to plugins in ~/.zshrc.
.SH AUTHORS
Geovane Guibes <https://github.com/guibes>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR claude (1),
.BR age (1),
.BR git (1)
